I first downloaded the tar file from the class page, moving it to the linux server with winscp and decompressing it with the command "tar -zxvf coreutils-with-bug.tar.gz."

I then went into the folder for coreutils-with-bug and ran "./configure CFLAGS="-g"" like the TA said to do.

Then I ran make to compile the file.

I obtained the patch linked to in the assignment spec with wget and applied it with "patch -p0 < coreutils.diff"

I then rebuilt the file and checked if it compiled correctly by going into the source folder and running "./ls"

The problem with the old version of coreutils is that there was a function named futimens in coreutils that had already been declared in other header files.
As a result we could not run "make" before applying the patch, which renamed futimens.

I reproduced the error by following the example outlined in the assignment spec, replacing the ls in the example with the path to the ls built in coreutils-with bug.

I then opened up ls.c in emacs and did and i-search for "mtime" as that is how files in the example with the error are sorted. I found the function compare_mtime which was the source of the problem.
The function did not account for overflow when comparing tv_sec values for files. This would cause problems such as older files being intepreted to be newer files and thus being improperly sorted.
All I did was add two if statements that would account for overflow.

To generate the patch, I ran "diff -u ls.c~ ls.c>lab5.diff" where ls.c~ is the original version of ls.c upon configuration. I then manually editted in the changelog entry into the diff file.

When trying to reproduce the problem in the home directory, dates before 1970 become future dates.
This is due to the fact that the SEASnet home directory is a 32-bit directory whereas the tmp directory you make in the example is a 64-bit directory.
Another thing to note is the differently formatted dates in ls's output when called in the home directory. For example 2004-02-05 in the tmp directory would be Feb 5 2004 in the home directory.
